README for bMotion
------------------

http://bmotion.sourceforge.net

Thanks for trying out bMotion... if you encounter problems please 
check the bug tracker on sourceforge before reporting them. The
bugtracker is the best place to report problems.

You can also get limited assistance from #bmotion on EFNet -- note
I do this in my spare time so if I'm not around to help, don't take
it personally :) Perhaps a community of other people who can help
will spring up.

There's also a sourceforge mailing list you may want to join for
discussing bMotion (as well as a low-traffic announements list).

Below are the instructions for installing bMotion, taken from the manual.
The full manual (currently a work in progress) is available from:

http://bmotion.sourceforge.net/docs/bMotion.pdf

Have fun!

James "Off" Seward
Developer, bMotion

---------------------------------------------------------------------
HOW TO INSTALL

(This assumes a working knowledge of eggdrop. If you're having problems
installing due to problems with eggdrop or your configuration, please
take them to the proper place rather than bringing them to me :)

You'll need the following:

* bMotion's code 
* An eggdrop, already set up and working. (If you don't know 
how to do this, or what I'm talking about, stop reading right here.) 
* A cup of coffee

Version requirements:
* eggdrop 1.6.x (where x is reasonably high)
* TCL 8.3 or better

(bMotion may work to a varying degree on older versions, but you'll get
errors probably. If you're using older versions (check .status) then
I strongly recommend you upgrade.)

To get the latest bMotion release source, download it from 
http://bmotion.sourceforge.net

If you're feeling daring, you can run the CVS code. The CVS version is always 
the latest version, but it may have half-complete features and may even crash 
your bot (however, I'm not in the habit of knowingly commiting code that kills 
eggdrop to CVS... after all, it's what my bot runs).


Installing the files

Once you have your bMotion code, eggdrop, and coffee do the following:

Put the bmotion...tar.gz file in your eggdrop's scripts directory (usually 
.../scripts). Run tar zxvf bmotion...tar.gz (substituting the proper filename). 
This extracts the bMotion code to .../scripts/bmotion/. If you want to move the 
code somewhere else, do so now. Change into the bmotion directory, and edit 
bMotion.tcl with your favourite editor. The first two lines of code should look 
like this:

set bMotionModules "scripts/bmotion/modules"
set bMotionPlugins "scripts/bmotion/plugins"

If you put bmotion somewhere else, edit these two variables to match. Close and 
save the file.

(bMotion will try to load customised versions of certain files (see the manual for
more on customising), and the settings file is one of them. For easier upgrades,
copy modules/settings.tcl to modules/settings_BOTNETNICK.tcl (where BOTNETNICK is
the value from the 'set botnetnick ...' line in your eggdrop's config). Edit that
file instead of settings.tcl below.)

Now change into the modules directory. Fire up your editor and open settings.tcl 
This file contains (brace yourself) all the settings for bMotion. You WILL want 
to change these, so pay attention:

set bMotionInfo(gender) "male" 
This sets the bot's gender. Choose from "male" or "female"

set bMotionInfo(balefire) 1 
A somewhat traditionally-named setting. This 
determines if the bot responds to things not directly addressed to it that you 
wouldn't want more than one bot to answer. If you have only one bMotion bot on a 
channel, set it to 1, else set it to 0 on all but one of the bots.

set bMotionInfo(randomChannels) { "#molsoft" "#ags" "#exeter" "#namcoarcade" 
"#startrek" } 
This is the list of the channels bMotion should be active on. If 
the bot's on a channel not listed here, it will ignore all bMotion 
commands/events there. Putting a channel in here that the bot isn't on will 
likely cause TCL to strop, so get it right. Remember, bMotion can be annoying, 
so only put it in channels where you have the right to, and where it will be 
welcome.

set bMotionInfo(orientation) "straight" 
Set the bot's sexual orientation. Choose 
"straight", "bi", "gay", or "lesbian"

set bMotionSettings(needI) 1 
Set this to one to require users to have the global 
I (that's capital i) flag for most of bMotion to respond to them. This flag 
isn't used much now anyway. Set it to 0 to have the bot treat all users equally.

set bMotionSettings(melMode) 0 
Set this to 1 to make the bot ignore its morals 
and sleep with anyone, regardless of gender or orientation.

set bMotionSettings(botnicks) "nt|bots|the bots" 
This is an important one. It 
defines the names your bot understands as referring to itself. (My bot is called 
NoTopic, so the first field is nt). List all the names it should respond to, 
separating them with a | (shift-\ on my keyboard). Case doesn't matter. Don't 
use parentheses — ( and ). You don't need to include the bot's IRC nick, it will 
always respond to that.

set bMotionSettings(typos) 7 
A factor affecting how many typos the bot should 
make. 100 will make the bot make typos almost continuously, 0 will stop it. 
(This is used by the output_typos plugin. See the section on Managing bMotion 
for more information about turning plugins on and off.)

set bMotionSettings(colloq) 10 
A factor affecting how much the bot will use 
(English) colloquialisms (common expressions). Values are 0 to 100 as above.

set bMotionSettings(noPlugin) "simple:huk,complex:wb" 
If you don't want bMotion 
to load a plugin ever, but don't want to delete the file, list them here using 
<type>:<name>. You can list more than one by separating them with commas. See 
the Managing bMotion chapter for more information.



set bMotionInfo(minRandomDelay) 20 
set bMotionInfo(maxRandomDelay) 120 
These two 
settings control how often the bot does random things (like going "lalala" and 
stuff). The first sets the minimum length of the gap between events, and the 
latter sets the longest delay. bMotion will pick a value between the two. These 
values are both in minutes.

set bMotionInfo(maxIdleGap) 45 
This setting stops the bot talking to itself. 
During bMotion's early days, it was common for it to chatter ("lalala") to 
itself overnight even though everyone else in the channel was idle. If there has 
been no activity on a channel for more than this many minutes, bMotion will keep 
quiet (or set itself away until people start talking again).

set bMotionInfo(brigDelay) 30 
This is the number of seconds someone should be 
kept in the brig before being tried by the courtmartial plugin.

set bMotionSettings(leetRandom) 0.5 
How often the bot should say something in 
1337-speak randomly. Values are 0-100.

set bMotionSettings(languages) "en,nl" 
set bMotionInfo(language) "en" 
Choose the 
languages bMotion thinks it can speak. Changing these won't actually make the 
bot speak a different language; they change which plugins it loads. Currently, 
bMotion ships with just English plugins (and about 2 Dutch ones). Don't change 
this unless you know you have other languages available. See the Managing 
bMotion chapter for more information.

Save and close settings.tcl

Back up to your eggdrop directory and open your bot's config file. Scroll to the 
end section where the source ... statements are to load scripts, and add:

source scripts/bmotion/bMotion.tcl

(If you put bMotion somewhere else, adjust this.)

Save and close the configuration file.

Optional bMotion saves some information about users in the userfile, and you may 
want to set/edit these directly (indeed, you'll need to make this change in 
order to take advantage of the feature in bMotion).

Change to your scripts directory, and open userinfo.tcl (the filename may be 
slightly different).

Find the line that looks like this: set userinfo-fields "URL BF GF IRL EMAIL DOB 
PHONE ICQ"

Add "GENDER IRL" to the list. Save the file. 
(End optional section).


Ok. Now for the important bit. Rehash your bot (/msg <botnick> rehash 
<password>, or .rehash on the partyline). If all goes well, you should see 
something like:

[21:13] bMotion v 1.19 2002/11/19 19:54:55 james AI online (randoms file: $Id: 
abstracts.tcl,v 1.25 2002/11/18 23:28:58 james Exp $)

...as your bot starts up.

If you get an error, refer to the currently non-existent Troubleshooting 
section. (Sorry, until I get feedback on what goes wrong for people I can't 
really write that bit.)

If you do require assistance, try me in #bmotion on EFNet. Don't ask for help in 
any of my other channels because I shall taunt you.

To check it's working, try typing .bmadmin status on the partyline.

You can also do "!bmadmin <botnick> parse hello" in a channel and it should say hello.

Drink the coffee.